# San Francisco

I lived in San Francisco from 2016 to 2019, and still follow its politics.
See also these voter guides (I don't fully agree with them, but they are well-researched):
* [SF YIMBY](https://www.sfyimby.org/endorsements)
* [SPUR](spur.org/voter-guide/san-francisco-2020-11)
* [Tech Worker Voter Guide](https://techworkers.vote/) (which also describes why each measure is on the ballot)

## Elected offices



## Ballot measures

### Yes on Prop A

Prop A is a bond for homelessness, parks, street and sidewalk safety.


### No on Prop B

Prop B aims to address [corruption in the Department of Public Works](https://www.kqed.org/news/11821145/months-after-sf-public-works-boss-nurus-arrest-staff-push-for-corruption-cleanup) by creating a new Department of Sanitation and Streets, moves DPW oversight from the City Administrator to a new Public Works Commission, and requires new annual audits and analysis.

As [techworkers.vote said](https://www.techworkers.vote/elections/2020-november/san-francisco/propositions/#prop-a), "this is performative accountability."
Commissions don't have actual power, and moving people to a new department---to the tune of at least \$2.5 million annually---doesn't change any incentives.


### Yes on Prop C

Prop C allows non-citizens to serve on city boards, commissions, and advisory bodies.
Citizenship status is an irrelevant factor in ability to contribute to these local government functions.

### Yes on Prop D

Prop D has similar governance aims to Prop B, with respect to the sheriff's department rather than DPW.
But unlike Prop B, it creates real investigatory powers, addressing an institution in dire need of greater oversight nationwide.

### Yes on Prop E

Prop E removes a minimum police staffing target set in a 1994 ballot measure.
The city has never met the target.
Elected officials and public safety experts
should be in charge of staffing, unconstrained from non-binding ballot measures that should have never been enacted.

### No on Prop F

Prop F repeals the city's payroll tax, and replaces the lost revenue with increasing rates on its current gross receipts tax.
It also reduces business registration fees and gross receipts taxes for small businesses.
Finally, Prop F contains elements pertaining to prior ballot measures, which a [court decision](https://missionlocal.org/2020/09/prop-c-supreme-court/) has made irrelevant.

A [report](https://sfcontroller.org/sites/default/files/Documents/Economic%20Analysis/200648_economic%20impact_final.pdf) from the Controller's office, which considers Covid-19, found that Prop F would have modest revenue effects over the next couple years, followed by steady revenue increases of about \$100 million per year beginning in 2024.[^prop-f-revenue]

[^prop-f-revenue]: Excludes now-irrelevant unlocked revenue from table in page 8 of the Controller's report.

```{list-table} Net tax revenue generated by Prop F (\$ millions)
:header-rows: 1

* - 2021
  - 2022
  - 2023
  - 2024
  - 2025
* - -8
  - 31
  - 64
  - 97
  - 97
```

The Controller's report also estimated that, beginning in 2023 due to the elimination of the payroll tax,
"An increase in employment in the City, and in City contractors, would slightly outweigh the job losses in the industries that face tax increases under the proposal."

The tax revenue and slight employment growth are not the only effects of the measure, though.
Prop F doubles down on a gross receipts tax, which doesn't exempt wages, expenses, or investments like corporate income taxes do
Nor do gross receipts taxes limit their scope to consumption, like both retail sales taxes (which tax final products) and value added taxes (which tax throughout the chain, and exist in all developed countries except the US) do.
Instead, 

Experts agree that gross receipts taxes are extremely inefficient.
Imagine a small business that provides administrative services for retailers.
If they can convince tax authorities that they're in the retail industry, they'll pay [a seventh of the taxes](https://sftreasurer.org/business/taxes-fees/gross-receipts-tax-gr) they'd pay if they're instead classified as in the administrative services industry.

Prop F also increases the extent to which taxes rise with employer size.
While progressive taxation might make sense for individuals, the same logic doesn't hold for firms: policy should not discourage growth and hiring.
But by shifting more to the gross receipts tax---which has graduated scales such that largest businesses often pay double the rate of smaller ones--and exempting small businesses from more taxes, that's exactly what Prop F does.
A firm 

About 1.5 percent of the General Fund[^sf-general-fund]

[^sf-general-fund]: The [budget for San Francisco](https://sfmayor.org/sites/default/files/CSF_Proposed_Budget_Book_July_2020_LR_Web_REV2.pdf) is \$13.7 billion in FY 2020-21, of which the General Fund comprises about half.
